---
layout: post
author: Ahmad
summary: A basic and familiar explanation of three machine learning methods
title: Some Types of Learning
link: /GDRL/CH01/TF01
categories: [GDRL]
---

In this post, we want to find out what supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement learning are, as they are essential branches of machine learning.

As you have some knowledge about computers, you know that we write algorithms as descriptions of what we want a computer to do for us. Writing a good description for a computer is a tough task. You need to know the language of the computer and some other structures to do it well. Another way is to change our perspective. By creating a way in which computers can make the algorithms themselves, we achieve what is called machine learning. So, how do we do that? Up to now, there are three main ways: *supervised*, *unsupervised*, and *reinforcement learning*.

Imagine that you have a child, and you want to teach him or her to walk. How do you choose the way of teaching? You could teach the child in a classroom, like in universities, but before that, the child would need to know a natural language at least! See? Learning is a complicated process, even for the most intelligent creature in the world (according to some systems of belief). To make this complicated process simpler, scientists have tried to define terms like the ones italicized. Let's understand what learning is by exploring these terms further.

# Supervised Learning
> Supervised learning (SL) is the task of learning from labeled data.
>
> -- <cite>Grokking Deep Reinforcement Learning Book</cite>

One way of teaching your children to learn walking is by showing them how to walk! If we trust their brain, we simply walk in front of them and tell them, **"This is walking."** We label this action. If something else happens, we tell them, **"You are not walking; you are doing something else."** Until we tell them what is walking and what is not, we are supervising them.

To avoid further metaphorical explanations, in supervised learning, you bring two things together:

1. **Labeled Data:** Some form of data that has been digitized, such as images, text, sound, etc., along with related metadata or labels that indicate how we, as humans, interpret this data.

2. **Model:** This is our child with the capacity for learning. In computer science, the method that has demonstrated this capability more than others is *Deep Learning*, which we will explore later.


After providing some education and training to the model, we expect it to correctly label unseen data.


# Unsupervised Learning
> Unsupervised learning (UL) is the task of learning from unlabeled data.
>
> -- <cite>Grokking Deep Reinforcement Learning Book</cite>

Another way to teach is to rely more on the child’s brain. As you know, the child can recognize differences between actions, so you don’t even need to label them. You can let the child learn through the differences between actions. If we have just two things, $A$ and $B$, if something is not $A$, then it must be $B$. Logical, right? But you only do this when you are sure the child understands the logic.

Again, in unsupervised learning you need two things:

1. **Unlabeled Data:** Some amount of data with common features that can be used to separate the data into parts.

2. **Model:** A learning method with a logic for separating data.

In this type of learning, the quality of the results depends almost entirely on the logic. Better logic leads to better learning.


# Reinforcement Learning
> Reinforcement learning (RL) is the task of learning through trial and error.
>
> -- <cite>Grokking Deep Reinforcement Learning Book</cite>